SOCKET
A network socket is an internal endpoint for sending or receiving data within
a node on a computer network.


INTERNET
The Internet (INTERconnected NETwork) is the global system of interconnected
computer networks that use the Internet protocol suite (TCP/IP) to link devices
worldwide.


TCP/IP - Internet Protocol Suite
Is the conceptual model and set of communications protocols used in the
Internet and similar computer networks.


IP - Internet Protocol
Its routing function enables internetworking. IP has the task of delivering
packets from the source host to the destination host solely based on the IP
addresses in the packet headers.
An IP address is a numerical label assigned to each device connected to a
computer network that uses the Internet Protocol for communication.
An IP address serves two main functions: host or network interface
identification and location addressing.

IPv4 - defines IP address as a 32-bit number, i.e.: 127.198.254.1
IPv6 - defines IP address as a 128-bit number, i.e.: 2001:db8:0:1234:0:567:8:1


TCP - Transmission Control Protocol
TCP provides reliable, ordered, and error-checked delivery of a stream of
octets (bytes) between applications running on hosts communicating via an
IP network.


UPD - User Datagram Protocol
Computer applications can send messages, in this case referred to as datagrams,
which is a basic transfer unit associated with a packet-switched network, to
other hosts on an IP network. Prior communications are not required in order
to set up communication channels or data paths.


WWW - World Wide Web
Is an information system where documents and other web resources are identified
by Uniform Resource Locators (URLs), which may be interlinked by hypertext,
and are accessible over the Internet. The resources of the WWW may be accessed
by users by a software application called a 'web browser'.


HTTP - Hypertext Transfer Protocol
Is an application protocol which is the foundation of data communication for
the World Wide Web.
HTTP communication protocol is synchronous: that means that one request is sent
at a time and will wait for its response to arrive before continuing.
In the communication between client and server, request are made to a Uniform
Resource Identifier (URI), which is a string of characters that unambiguously
identifies a particular resource.
The 'payload' is the part of transmitted data that is the actual intended
message.

Request Methods
    GET - used to request data from a specified resource.

    HEAD - almost identical to GET, but without the response body.

    POST - used to send data to a server to create/update a resource.

    PUT - used to send data to a server to create/update a resource.
    PUT requests are idempotent.

    DELETE - deletes the specified resource.

    OPTIONS - describes the communication options for the target resource.



SMTP - Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
Dictates how email should be formatted, encrypted and relayed between mail
servers.

TLS (port 587) and SSL (port 465) are both types of encryption. To connect to
a mail server, we have to do it using the right encrypting.


IMAP - Internet Message Access Protocol
Specifies how to communicate with an email provider’s server to retrieve
emails sent to your email address.
